<!--## Prep
- print survey
- print syllabus
- print Paik
-->
## Hello
Go ahead and read the Paik manifesto

Intro: name + pronouns, YEAR, MAJOR


## Paik
Does anyone know something about Nam June Paik?

- first video artist
- came out of Fluxus, a conceptual art movement, and worked with John Cage (4'33")
Pasteur?
- inoculation to stimulate immunity
Robespierre?
- violent revolution
- "The medium is the message" -- the medium itself is what transforms society more than what is said through it (1964)
Cybernetics?
- "the scientific study of control and communication in the animal and the machine" (1948)
- systems that incorporate human and non-human elements, ie computers
- the idea that you can define the world as a system
- what is that?
Happenings?
- Alan Kaprow, social interaction can itself be an artistic work
- Paik is explicitly making the happening technological, saying that art also applies to those systems
- this is one origin point of media art
Grid?
- he's describing a transistor: an electronic switch, which makes it process for machines to process information
- I think he's confused here, however
- Transistor was at Bell Labs (1947), or the vacuum tube at the turn of the 20th century by Sir John Ambrose Fleming, an Englishman
Buddhism and 'third way?'
- between aceticism and indulgence
Karma
- interconnectedness and cause and effect
- samsara? contined cycle of existence
Metempsychosis?
- reincarnation

So, in summary, he's saying technology is inseparable from contemporary existence, and thus a necessary domain of art



## Intro

Who's taken DM1 with me?
Who's taken DM1 with Carl?

- so I loved Carl's syllabus, but my focus was more on programming than Carl's. so we'll figure out ways to address that as we go.


So what is _this_ course? This is the first time that's there's been a 200-level Digital Media Art course at LC.

Many of you I know from Digital Media I last semester. My intent for that course is that it is focused on the formal issues of digital media art.

What do I mean by that? What is formalism?

- how stuff is made, what is the internal logic behind the work, emphasis on craft
- what are the fundamental structures of the medium
- ...the _code_ in digital media is inherently formalist, you're making the work by writing a formal definition of it, in code

What do we often contrast with formalism? _conceptualism_. Which is what?

- the work isn't just in the work, it's how it's positioned in the world
- that the work does something in relation to society
- that gives precedence to the _idea_ over the execution


We're not by any means leaving formalism. In this course, we're going to be making art by coding. But because this is a 200-level art course, there's also going to be more of a conceptual art focus on the role of digital media in society.

So we're not only making art _with_ code, we're making art _about_ what code does in the world.

Questions? Thoughts?



## Syllabus

Ok, so all of that said, you all are going to be the guinea pigs for this first edition, and we're going to be feeling our way through this a bit. I've established the structure and the parameters with the syllabus, so let's take a look at that.

[syllabus] theme ...
Please review the policies on your own

Ok, what are your questions?



## Homework

So that brings us to the homework for next class. I realize that's only two days from now, but I'm going to ask you to do two things.

The first is to read Donna Haraway. This is excerpts from Cyborg Manifesto.

The second is this.
