<!--## Prep
- have the document projector to show paper work
-->

## Cyborg Manifesto
How do we read theory as artists?  
Theorists and historians are concerned with discourse  
We can have a more naive reading where we take the ideas within at face value  
But we're always looking for how to express this materially. If Haraway says it in words, what do these ideas look and feel like?  
It's also ok to not totally understand what's being said here. We can feel our way through the text. And of course we don't have to agree.  

What is the context of this piece?
- Haraway was born in the 40s, pre-boomer, she's from Colorado, and earned her PhD in biology at Yale
- This essay made her famous, as well as infamous
- 1985, we're right between 2nd and 3rd wave feminism (1st: suffrage, 2nd: rejection of patriarchy, 3rd: intersectionality, plurality, recognition that equality and oppression take many forms)

With this essay, Haraway brings technology right into the middle of that.

What are the three binaries that she calls out starting on the third page?
- Human vs Animal: language, tool-use, social behavior, mental events
- Animal vs Machine: automata, etc
- Physical vs Non-physical: "our best machines are made of sunshine", abstract systems, math, code, as opposed to coarse matter (transcendental ideal)

For Haraway, it's not about resolving these binaries, or providing a master framework for them. It's about "permanently partial identities and contradictory standpoints" (72)

Hierarchical dominations -> scary new networks (80)
Remember, this is 1985. No mainstream internet yet.  
To some extent here, she's describing neoliberalism
"racism and colonialism" -> development and underdevelopment

What's the call here? Find ways to be a cyborg. Figure out how this works. Science and technology can't be placed on one side, as tools of power, they have to be means of resistance as well.

So how has that played out? Since 1985 we have the internet and everything that comes with it. Has that increased oppression? Or has it made forms of resistance possible?


## Crit

So let's take a look at the exercise. We won't formally critque this work, but let's have everyone show what they did. We'll either plug in, or paste on this column.


## Practicals
- Discuss presentations and sign-up
- This can be a question raised by the text, a critique of it, a link to related artistic work, or some other brief comment which can stimulate our discussion


## Extra time
- Sign up for twitter with your lclark address
  - dont disable email
- install Node, hello world
  - Download and install [Atom](https://atom.io)
  - Download install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
  - Download and unzip the [template](template.zip)
  - Open the Terminal (`/Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app`) or Windows Command Prompt
  - Change directories to the template folder by typing `cd`, space, and then dragging the folder to the Terminal window
  - `npm init`
  - `npm install twit path fs`
- p5 resources
