## Reading discussion

Wendy Chun: "The Enduring Ephemeral, or the Future Is a Memory"

So this is a piece of media studies writing. Different tone than the other readings? ... Making more of a philosophical point here, and also situating itself within a discourse of other thinkers, the whole first section is doing that.

Let's think about 2008: in 2001 we had the crash, the platforms of web 2.0 launched by 2006, now there was a real optimism. later that year was Obama, but then also the financial crash

152
"technologies become 'invisible' ... an assumed part of everyday existence"

So she's trying to unpack that. What are we assuming, here?

That memory and storage are the same thing. So what's the difference?
- memory is ephemeral, it implies the possibility of forgetting, it must be constantly refreshed
- on that last point, she means it very literally—electricity has to continue to circulate for it to work, right?

We talked about this with the Burrington, there's also some Media Archeology going on here: the Memex

Why does she turn to the memex? To show how early this assumption got baked in.

159
"there is no difference between access to and understanding the record ... between information and argument"

So, as Bush implies, once you have access and create links, that knowledge is permanent.

But Wendy is ultimately making an argument here for interpretation, for all the layers of context that are necessary for understanding, that when you remember something it's inevitably a repetition with difference that is informed by the present.

What I think is so fascinating about her approach is that she does this by looking at the materiality of the machine. It's not _despite_ the permanent nature of technology that we also need to appreciate context, it's _because_ of the ephemeral nature of this technology.


/

161
"an instruction or program is functionally equivalent to its result"



## Presentations

Leon
Sam Sanford


## Work time

You should have a working bot that you are refining at this point


<!--

This class could be the time that the bots are installed on a machine in the lab to run for 24 hours in advance of the crit
-->
